Estimates and milestones.
I am sure this is your favorite topic,
but developing basic estimates and milestones yields
critical information required to best optimize your order
of work that we just talked about.
Are estimates and milestones always needed?
Well, let's see.
If milestones and estimates are not needed for your project,
then just begin work based on the order and
prioritization your teams have determined.
Now,
orderings and priorities may change based on the
needs of your downstream partners,
and you'll be making ongoing adjustments accordingly.
That never changes and shouldn't.
But usually, the bigger the project or maybe the bigger the organization,
the more likely you'll have one or more full‑time project managers and
executives asking for estimates of milestones for your backlog work.
Your estimates are important,
since project managers and others are looking to you to
meet or deliver on project milestones and,
of course, to ensure that teams are within budget guidelines.
Now let's see an example of how to make estimates a less tedious process.
So when will that work item be done?
You might be asked this question by project managers or executives,
and you should have an approach to help you do just that.
Let's look at a basic way to make estimates.
Estimates should not be from the hip, nor should they take a ton of time.
For this example,
let's assume you're a functioning Kanban team with all of your
historical data captured in a Kanban management tool.
First,
you want to consider a period of historical time to
help forecast your estimates.
We will use a 4‑week or a 20‑workday period. Determine the number
of tasks or work items completed in that period.
So let's say we had 80 tasks, so divided by 20 workdays, that
would give us about 4 tasks per day on average. You have
likely picked up on what I'm doing.
I am not estimating each task literally,
but instead simply counting the number of tasks it
would take to complete the work.
So it is important to have a cohesive team working together for a while
in order to have enough empirical data to be relevant.
Next, estimate the new work by determining how many tasks it'll take.
So let's say our estimate is 16 tasks for the new work.
Calculate the estimated time for the new work item to be complete.
So, 16 divided by 4 tasks per day yields about 4 days.
That will be our estimate.
Counting tasks saves time versus estimating each and
every task the old‑fashioned way.
So if your Kanban team has been running for a while, then
you'll have lots of empirical data to draw upon to help you
make these types of estimates.
Your digital Kanban board will track all of this for you, so it should be relatively easy to crank out estimates.